---
permalink: /casestudy/
title: "Artificial Intelligence in Healthcare: Addressing Racial Bias in Skin Cancer Detection"
author_profile: true
layout: single
collection: casestudy
nav_order: 0
---
## ABSTRACT
**Artificial Intelligence (AI)** is transforming healthcare by improving disease detection. In dermatology, AI analyzes skin images to identify cancer, enabling faster diagnoses. However, many AI systems perform less accurately on darker skin because they are trained primarily on lighter-skinned images. This creates an ethical challenge: while AI can save lives through early detection, it may also perpetuate health inequities.

This case study examines racial bias in AI skin-cancer diagnostic tools, focusing on ethical dilemmas between innovation and fairness. It explores how unbalanced training data can harm patients with darker skin, identifies affected stakeholders, and discusses solutions such as diverse datasets, fairness testing, and regulatory oversight.

---

## Choose a section to explore:
[Background Information & Ethical Focus](background/)
Learn about AI in healthcare and how it is used for skin cancer detection and how ethical frameworks are embedded on the issue.  

[Data and Bia](databias/)
Explore how training datasets can create racial bias and affect diagnostic accuracy.

[Let's Talk about stakeholders](stakeholders/)
Discover who is affected by AI in dermatology and what their responsibilities are.  
- **Patients** (especially darker-skin patients): need safe, fair diagnoses
- **Doctors and nurses**: need reliable systems to trust in decision-making
- **Hospitals**: want to use AI but must ensure patient safety
- **AI companies**: build tools and must fix bias issues
- **Government/regulators**: protect public health and fairness
- **Society**: wants equal access to accurate medical care

[Go to activity page](activity/)
Engage in an interactive exercise to see the effects of biased AI in clinical scenarios.  

[Audience Pages:](audience/)
Tailored guidance for:
- Patients and Healthcare Users
- Meidcal Professionslas and Hospitals
- AI Developers and Policymakers

[Discussion Questions](discussionqn/)
Five questions to reflect on key issues like fairness, accountability, and AI’s role in healthcare.  

[Citation](citations/)
